This post started as a reply to a reblog, but it really deserves its own post.  

Look at this cheery advice from us, and @pausemeplayme’s absolutely perfect knee-jerk reaction:


[Image Transcription: 

Spoonie Living: Knowing where your doctor is and what they’re thinking is so, so valuable, and–as this article points out–discussing it with them can actually help them in their own thinking!

Pausemeplayme: Okay I would like to say that it’s bullshit that as patients we have to coach our doctors through treating us with empathy and care, but I also know that being upset about it doesn’t change it, and being armed with better tools can help in a shitty situation. So while the issue is still with doctors who would rather seem all-knowing than admit they are stumped and look for other options, being prepared to stand up for yourself and your care can be beneficial if it’s something you have the energy to do.]

What an important reminder. Every piece of advice on dealing with doctors should be prefaced with this line.

We agree that it’s good to get past the frustration and work on tools that we can use to improve our medical experiences, but we disagree that being upset doesn’t change it! We need to remember to be upset, so that we can remind others of this fact. We need to hold healthcare practitioners accountable in whatever ways we are able. 

Although it’s a small gesture, coming into these interactions with this knowledge–that we’re going above and beyond what ought to be expected of us–can help us call out the bullshit. More importantly, it can help us protect ourselves by recognizing the boundaries we are being asked to cross every time we hit the waiting room. 

“It’s not fair.” Just knowing that will help keep a spoonie from falling into self-doubting emotional traps. Doctor’s appointment didn’t go well? It’s not because you failed as a patient: it’s because your doctor failed you. When you jump through the hoops and make a misstep, remember that you shouldn’t have to be jumping through hoops in the first place! You are not failing: the system is failing you, and you’re just doing your darnedest to keep your footing.

When it comes down to it, putting the onus on the patient to micromanage their medical care ends up being another form of slow, subtle gaslighting that the chronically ill experience in the medical system. 

So let’s fight it. Let’s call it what it is. This is emotional labor. It’s a LOT of emotional labor. And, like many other forms of emotional labor, it goes absolutely unrecognized. 

— needs editing

Never heard this term before? 

We’ve found this concept extremely helpful when framing our experiences in the world as part of a marginalized group. You can learn more here, and read an enlightening Metafilter thread on the topic, organized in annotated PDF format, here. Neither are spoonie-specific, but we know our readers will find the concept very familiar.
